Hello, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount Air, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
And I'll start a new series tonight and give you some thoughts out of here.
We'll try to get through this first message tonight.
Maybe we'll be able to.
And that's a good thing about a series.
If you don't get done with the first one, well, you can just take it over into the next one.
Amen.
And that's a good thing about pastoring too.
If you don't get done preaching one message, you can just preach it again the next service.
Amen.
And so I want to give you some thoughts tonight.
And I'm probably going to talk to you a whole lot more tonight than just
prayer back and preaching like I normally do.
And I just want to give you some things tonight.
And I want to say this to you before I even start tonight.
I wish that I could say that everything that I'm going to say to you tonight that I always practice it exactly the way that I'm going to give it to you tonight.
And I just say that again.
I wish that I could say that I always practice it the exact way I'm going to give it to you tonight.
But forgiveness is a very hard thing.
Now, if you'll help me, we'll get through this a whole lot sooner and you might be able to make it to the Super Bowl.
And it's easy to preach about.
It's easy to write about.
It's easy to talk about.
but I'm gonna tell you something and it's very hard to practice sometimes.
Now somebody say amen and help me right there.
And I tell ya, I seen a post and I'm gonna say this and I'm gonna read to ya.
It popped up in my memories yesterday that I had shared this like six or 11 years ago or something other that a preacher friend of mine said and he said this.
He said, whenever you leave the church and decide to talk about your pastor, make sure you talk about all the times he helped you also.
so.
And sometimes it's hard to forgive.
Alright, let me say it again.
We're starting to get in the routine.
Sometimes it's hard to forgive, but it's scriptural to forgive.
It's scriptural to forgive.
Amen.
One of the hardest things about being a preacher's kid, and I know something about being a preacher's kid because I grew up as a preacher's kid.
My dad pastored a flourishing church as I was growing up, a very successful church.
And one of the hardest things about that was watching people act one way towards my dad at church, and then hearing them talk a completely separate way to him in other places.
hearing them say things to him.
You know what the Bible says to do?
The Bible says that we're to forgive.
So I want to start a series tonight on that subject, on the subject of forgiveness tonight.
And maybe I've got about five or six different messages that I hope the Lord will let us walk through.
And maybe we can learn something out of it tonight.
Amen.
And I hope that you'll listen, not just with an open ear, but with an open heart tonight.
And can I just say this to you, I'm gonna get it to your ear tonight, but it's gonna take the Lord to put it in your heart.
And I'm gonna try my best to give you some things that He's given me as we walk through this scripture tonight.
And maybe the Lord will help us tonight.
All right, let's, well, let me back up and rephrase that.
The Lord will help us tonight if we'll let Him.
Amen.
It's not maybe the Lord will help, He will help us if we'll let Him.
Let's stand in honor and reverence to the reading of God's Word.
The Bible said this in Luke chapter number 17.
And I'll just pick up reading in verse number one.
Then said he unto the disciples, it is impossible but that the offenses will come.
It is impossible but that the offenses will come.
But woe unto him through whom they come.
It were better for him that a milestone were hanged about his neck and he cast into the sea.
Then he should offend one of these little ones.
Take heed to yourself.
If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him.
And if he repent, forgive him.
Now I'm going to tell you something, verse number three, and I'm just going to keep reading or I'll get bogged down.
Verse number three is a profound verse.
All of our Bible is, but you understand what I'm saying tonight.
Look again what he says.
Take heed to yourself.
Now let's pay attention right here.
So take heed to yourself.
If thy brother trespass against thee, look what the Bible says, rebuke him.
You know what that means?
And again, I'm gonna get ahead of myself if I'm not careful.
Go to him and say something to him.
That's what it means.
And then he says, thee us rebuke him.
And if he repent, now watch this, forgive him.
Just as quick as you went to him and rebuked him.
If he repents of it that quick, you forgive him for it.
Amen.
Then he goes on to say, thee us in verse number four.
And if he trespass against these seven times in a day and seven times in a day, turn again to the saying, I repent thou shalt forgive him.
That's not your choice whether you forgive him or not.
The Bible said you shall do it.
Thou shalt forgive him.
Well, it's already getting quiet tonight.
The Bible said in verse number five, and the apostle said unto the Lord, increase our faith.
That just kindly, that verse, a lot of times we hear it, but we never really hear it in true context.
What's he dealing with?
Forgiveness.
The disciples said, Lord, you need to increase our faith.
Look what they said in verse number six.
And the Lord said, if he had faith as a grain of a mustard seed,
You might say unto the sycamine tree, be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you.
But which of you having to serve it plowing or feeding cattle will say unto him, buy and buy when he has come from the field, go and sit down to meet?
And will not rather say unto him, make ready where with, I may sup and gird thyself,
and serve me till I have eaten and drunk and afterward thou shalt eat and drink."
Does he think that the servant, because he did the thing that were commanded him, I trod not?
Verse number 10 says, So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you say, we are unprofitable servants, we have done that
which was our duty to do.
Father I love you tonight.
Lord you know the burden on my heart tonight and you know the need of this service.
God I pray Lord tonight as we begin this new series on the subject of forgiveness.
Lord that you would help us with it tonight and God that you would do a work that only you can do.
God, this is a subject that a lot of people God never really deal with in their life.
And because of that, malice sets up and bitterness sets up.
And God, there's a lot of people that's not even in church today all because of this one subject.
So I pray God that you would help us to rightly divide it tonight.
May you get glory and honor in Jesus' name.
Amen and amen.
You can be seated tonight.
Forgiveness is one of the clearest marks of Christian maturity and one of the hardest disciplines God calls us to practice.
It's a wonderful thing to experience the forgiveness of God, but Scripture makes it equally clear that forgiven people must become forgiving people.
Can I say that to you again?
The scripture makes it clear that forgiven people must become forgiving people.
In other words, if Christ has forgiven us, then we must forgive others tonight.
Whenever we think about this, Jesus addresses this subject directly.
in Luke chapter number 17.
And he begins with a warning that should get our attention.
He says in verse number three, take heed to yourself.
In other words, watch your heart, your spirit, your responses.
Forgiveness is not primarily about the other person.
It's about obedience.
It's about humility.
And it's about spiritual growth inside of us.
Now I want to say something to you tonight.
Obedience and spiritual growth is something that we're interested in.
But humility is not something that we're interested in so many times today.
But forgiveness tonight is about humility.
It's about obedience.
And it's about spiritual growth in us as Christians tonight.
I wanna show you three things tonight and then I'll be done.
Number one, I want you to look at understanding forgiveness.
The purpose, understanding forgiveness.
Now, I'll show you three things about this and we'll move on.
Can I say this to you tonight?
Under understanding forgiveness, there is the misconceptions concerning forgiveness.
There is some misconceptions
when it comes to forgiveness tonight.
Think about this.
Forgiveness is not the same as apologizing.
Forgiveness is not the same.
Saying I'm sorry is not the same thing as saying please forgive me.
Can I say that again?
When you say please forgive me and I'm just gonna hit this in passing.
What you are saying is this, you are acknowledging that you was wrong and you're asking the other person to forgive you.
So many times we say I'm sorry and we really don't even mean nothing by it.
It's different when we say please forgive me.
And apology acknowledges regret, forgiveness removes
the debt.
Think about this, forgiveness is not the same as apologizing, but forgiveness does not require, now listen to me, forgetting.
Forgiveness does not, it's getting real quiet and still.
It does not, can I just say something to you?
You're not gonna forget.
That's the reason it's so important that we're careful what we do say to people and how we do act towards people because we can say we're sorry all we want to.
We can ask for forgiveness all we want to and they may even grant that forgiveness but you never forget.
Forgiveness does not require forgetting.
The Bible never commands us to forget.
Forgetting is passive and often impossible.
Forgiveness
is intentional and deliberate.
Forgiveness is not primarily a feeling.
It's not primarily a feeling.
The thing about this, many people wait to feel forgiven, but biblical forgiveness is a choice of obedience, not an emotional response.
Matter of fact, the Bible does not remind us in Jeremiah 17, verse number nine, that our heart is an unreliable guide.
So it's not about emotions.
So there's the misunderstanding concerning or the misconception concerning forgiveness.
But I want you to see this.
There's the ministry to understanding forgiveness.
What is forgiveness?
The ministry to understanding it.
We must understand how God has forgiven us if we're ever going to forgive anybody else.
How has God forgiven us?
What is God done for us?
Our model for forgiveness is not human wisdom.
Our model for forgiveness is divine grace.
I hope you're getting what I'm saying to you.
Our model for forgiveness is not some kind of human wisdom that we can think up tonight.
Our model for forgiveness comes from divine grace.
Listen to what the Bible said in Ephesians chapter number four.
And be kind one to another.
Tend to heart it.
Forgiving one another.
Even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you.
God never asked us to forgive in a way
he has not already forgiven us.
God didn't ask us to forgive, but if he hadn't already practiced forgiveness to us, if God could forgive us, if Christ could forgive us, then there is no excuse for why we can't forgive others.
Can I just say that again?
If, and it's not if, Christ has forgiven us.
And he's saying,
The model for forgiveness, the ministry of understanding forgiveness, it all goes back to the way Christ forgave us.
Now note this and we'll move on.
There's the means by which God forgave us.
How did God do it?
Forgiveness is not a feeling God has.
It's a declaration that God made.
Forgiveness is not just some feeling that God had.
God makes a declaration.
What did he say in Isaiah chapter 43?
He said this.
I even I am he that blotted out by transgressions for my own sake and will not remember thy sin.
It's a declaration.
God has said this to us.
I choose not to remember your sins.
God tells us we're forgiven.
It's a promise.
God's promises are God promises not to remember our sin of forgetting this passive but not remembering is active.
And God says to you, I choose not to remember what you've done.
And again, church, if God can say that to us, why can't we say that to others?
God deliberately chose not to bring our sins back up.
Biblical forgiveness.
Listen to me.
Biblical forgiveness is a promise not to use the offense as a basis for future retaliation or treatment.
You know what God says?
He sets the model.
God says this, those things that you've done, I've forgiven you for that.
And I'm not gonna bring it up anymore.
Matter of fact, he says it's cast as far as the east is from the west.
It's in the depths of the sea.
It's blotted out like a thick cloud.
I understand all of that is Old Testament.
We're in the New Testament.
And thank God they're washed away by the blood of the Lamb.
But what he is saying is this, I'm not gonna bring up what you did in the past as a retaliation
against you when you forgive somebody you choose if it's true forgiveness you can I just illustrate it how many times husband and wives have you had a discussion y'all hear me some of y'all have more than discussions but if you had a discussion and and
you have said they have come back to you and said, I'm sorry.
Y'all caught that, didn't you?
And you said, I forgive you.
And three days go by and they say something, you go, well, you know what?
Four days ago, that wasn't true forgiveness.
true forgiveness.
Christ models it for us church.
True forgiveness and biblical forgiveness is a promise not to use the offense against someone at a later date.
Listen to me, especially married people setting in here tonight.
When your spouse comes to you and they apologize and you say you forgive them, drop it.
Don't ever bring it up again.
The past is the past.
It's water under the bridge.
Let it go.
That's what forgiveness is tonight.
That's what I'm preaching good until we understand what forgiveness truly is and what it is not.
We will either excuse sin, avoid obedience or carry burdens God never intended to bear and intended us to bear.
Biblical forgiveness begins with seeing how God forgave us
not how deeply we are hurt.
So number one, understanding forgiveness, the purpose of it.
Number two, I want you to see the plan undertaking forgiveness.
Now we understand what it is.
How do we undertake forgiveness?
What is the plan of doing this?
Let me show you two, three.
Number one, I want you to see this tonight.
The initial statement.
Note again what he said in verse number three.
I know I'm preaching a little bit different tonight, but I hope you're getting what I'm telling you.
Take heed to yourself.
Verse number, take heed to yourself.
He's saying, be on guard.
Jesus opens this teaching with a warning because forgiveness is dangerous to mishandle.
It's dangerous to mishandle.
He said, so be on guard.
Take heed to yourself.
This tells us that forgiveness requires spiritual awareness and discipline.
The only way you'll ever truly forgive anybody is if you're right spiritually.
It's not an emotional thing.
It's not a fleshly thing.
I'm telling you tonight, church, it's a spiritual thing.
And you have to, I said it this morning, it goes back to Romans, you have to die to yourself.
You have to die to your wants.
You have to die to your feelings.
You have to die to your desires to retaliate against somebody.
You have to die to every bit of that and use Christ as the model example.
Are you with me tonight?
Think about this.
This tells us that forgiveness requires spiritual awareness.
So there's the initial statement, but then there's the important situation.
I'm headed somewhere.
important situation what's the important situation well here it is if thy brother trespass against the if thy brother this is a very broad category offenses happen constantly and this issue destroys marriages destroys families it destroys churches and it destroys friendships on a daily basis the real question really is this and I am not
Correcting the Bible it's not necessarily if thy brother offend thee it's when Because the truth of the matter is this you're gonna get offended Somebody's gonna say something to you somebody's gonna act away towards you.
You're gonna be a it's 2026 You're gonna get offended
I mean, there's some offended because they think there's some other, something other that God didn't even make and they want to use a bathroom that my kids go in.
And if I'm standing outside the door, it ain't happening.
And it's probably going to be more than offended when I get done, just to be honest with you.
It's the generation of offended.
Everybody's offended today.
I'm offended because of this.
I'm offended because of that.
You're going to get offended.
Your feelings are going to get hurt.
Somebody's going to look at you cross-eyed.
The preacher ain't going to shake your hand when you think he should have shook your hand.
But you never walk by the door to shake his hand.
And before you know it, you're offended and you're sitting at home.
I wish I really, Jonathan understands this, but Josh understands this.
Brother Williams understands this.
I really, really,
really wish that every person sitting in this church could have the mental battle that a pastor has on Sunday morning.
I really wish you could.
I really do.
You say, why do you let Jonathan make the announcement sometimes just so I can keep my mind clear for preaching?
Can I tell you first and foremost what God called me to do to preach the word?
That's what he called me to do.
He, don't nobody fall out with me right here.
He didn't call me to visit the widows.
He didn't call me to visit the hospital.
That's the reason he put deacons in the church.
He called me to preach the word.
I'm telling you something, there's a mental battle goes on in preacher's minds that you don't even have a clue about.
The worst time you could say anything to a preacher is on Sunday mornings if there's something to not write.
There's so much in his mind.
And there's been so many people that God offended because they didn't think that the preacher talked to them in the manner that he should have or this or that or the other.
And the truth of the matter is that he didn't even know nothing about it.
And they're out of church today, and the preacher still don't even know because the preacher's caught them, the preacher's asked them, but they never said nothing about it.
Think about this.
the important situation.
If thy brother offended, it's gonna happen.
The initial statement, the important situation.
Now, undertaken forgiveness, here we go.
The immediate stand, this is our obligation.
Can I show it to you?
Look back in verse number three.
Stephanie, will you give us verse number three back on the screen?
Know what he says, take heed to yourself
If thy brother trespass thee, now here is our immediate stand, here is our obligation.
Our first obligation is rebuke.
That's our, I'm just giving it to you straight out of the Bible.
Now there is a right way and a wrong way to do this.
Rebuke don't mean that you walk up to them in front of everybody and bless them out.
Are you hear me?
I don't have time to preach all this, but here's what it does mean that you take that person in private and you say, hey, listen, I just don't understand why you said this or why you done this.
Can you help me understand that better?
If you want somebody to go on the defense real quick, you go to accusing them of something.
If you'll listen to me, I'll help you right here.
You go, the best thing you can do is, hey, brother Peyton, I love you, buddy.
I really do.
I thank you for your faithfulness.
Thank you for being able to help me any way you can.
But you said something in the other night, and brother Peyton, can you help me understand what you meant by that?
Just help me understand that.
You know what I'm doing?
I'm rebuking him.
There's a right way and a wrong way.
The wrong thing to do is to go up to him and say, hey, brother Peyton, you know what?
You're blooming an idiot, man.
And I don't appreciate what you said.
You know what I've just done?
I've lost brother Peyton.
I've lost his mama.
I've lost his daddy.
I've lost his siblings.
I've probably lost half the church because he's kind of half the people in the church when it all could have been handled in a whole different manner.
It is our obligation and our first obligation is rebuke.
But there's a right way and a wrong way to do that.
Our first obligation is not a pity party.
Hello.
Our first obligation is not explosive anger.
Our first obligation is not to pick up the phone and call somebody else and ask them what they think about the situation.
Can I just give you a word for that?
Gossip.
So in discord among the brethren,
That's not your first obligation.
Your first obligation is to go to that individual and talk to that individual.
Rebuke.
That's the first obligation.
Rebuke him.
It's to speak to him directly about the offense.
I want to read you something that I read.
Rod Mattoon said this.
This rebuke is to be strong enough to inspire repentance.
To rebuke does not mean to point out every sin, for Jesus also warns against being judgmental.
Rebuke is always to be done in love and compassion, not in a censoring or judgmental spirit.
Its purpose is to bring the sin to the attention of the offended person and restore them to fellowship with the Lord and the other believer.
In this passage, this refers to sin that could pull that person or others away from God and result in a horrible judgment.
Listen to what he went on to say.
When a person feels that he or she must rebuke another Christian for a sin,
It is wise and essential for that person to check his or her attitude and motivation first.
His attitude and why are you even going to rebuke him?
You know, a lot of times you just need to throw your passive fire away and suck it up and go on.
Can I just say it that way?
Just, I mean, I ain't gonna be as bold as Josh Jenkins was and take a pacifier to the pool pit and say, some of y'all need to throw this away.
Did I call you out on that right there?
Well, I'm just, that's what needs to happen a lot of times.
A lot of times, you just need to get your feelings off your shoulder.
I'm just being real with you.
You need to get your feelings off your shoulder.
A lot of times, amen.
Think about this.
Why are you doing it?
What is your attitude?
What is your approach?
Why are you even doing it?
Are you doing it just to call them out?
Are you doing it to try to bring some kind of retaliation towards them?
Are you doing it just to judge them?
Why are you even doing it?
He goes on to say this.
When a person feels that he or she must rebuke another Christian for a sin, it is wise and a sin for the person to check his or her attitude and motivation.
First, y'all don't know I could read that fast.
He needs to take a good look at himself to make sure there are no faults in his own life that he has not made right with God or other people.
We are to make sure that there is not a log or a beam in our own eye before we remove the splinter or moat in our brother's eye.
Boy, how true that is.
You should preach a wise this necessary because it's obedience to God's word.
What did he say in Matthew?
He said this moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone.
If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother.
Why is this necessary?
Because it's obedience to God's work.
To establish the facts.
You may discover that nothing was meant by it all to begin with, that it was a complete misunderstanding.
Many people remain bitter for years over misunderstandings when one act of biblical obedience could have prevented the entire conflict.
When one act of biblical, what is that biblical obedience?
Rebuke him, go to him in love, sit down and talk to him.
So what is our obligation?
Well, our obligation is to rebuke, but then watch this.
Our obligation is to forgive.
The first one's rebuke.
Look at the verse again in verse number three.
Take heed to yourself.
If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him.
And if he repent, what did the Bible say?
Forgive him.
You know what you're supposed to do according to the Bible?
You forgive him.
I thought about this.
Here's some excuses that we often come up with, not forgive.
Here's some of them.
They aren't showing fruits of repentance.
I just don't see no fruits of repentance.
Listen to what Jesus says.
If he says I repent, forgive him.
We're not appointed judges of repentance.
What we must remember is fruit takes time to grow.
Hope you caught what I just said.
Fruit takes time to grow.
We don't hold it over their head.
We don't shadow their growth.
You know what we do?
Churches is what we do.
We forgive them.
It's our obligation to rebuke them and then to forgive them.
He said, or sometimes our excuses, we don't show fruits.
Sometimes our excuses, I don't feel like forgiving.
Well, whenever you look and I'm not gonna take time to go in to verse seven through 10, like a servant who is tired, yet still obeys, we forgive.
Why?
Because Christ is our master, not because it feels easy.
I just don't feel like forgiving.
Well, it's not about our feelings.
It's not about what we want.
It's about what he wants.
It's about dying to ourself, arising anew in Him.
It's about walking in Christian love and doing what the Bible commands us to do.
That's forgiven.
Giveness is not optional, emotional, or situational.
It is an act of obedience to Christ when offenses comes.
God does not ask us how we feel, but whether we will trust Him enough to do what He has commanded us to do.
So you see, there's a purpose understanding forgiveness.
There's a plan undertaking forgiveness, but then there's the problem.
You say, what's the problem that's under keeping forgiveness?
In other words, doing it.
Doing it.
I've showed you everything that the Bible says, but can I say this to you?
Or can I ask you this?
Are we growing in that?
Are we undertaking forgiveness?
Are we keeping that discipline in our life?
I'll show you two things here and then we'll go home.
By promising, how do we undertake forgiveness?
How do we make this happen?
Well, I can say this by promising not to bring it up to that person again.
Not to bring it up to them.
Not to bring it up to the person.
Not to bring it up behind the person.
I was listening to a message the other day by Dr. Seitler and Dr. Harold Seitler, what a great preacher he was.
But he said this.
He said, if you continually talk about the problem, you've never forgiven the person.
If you continually bring it up, you've never truly forgiven.
Can I say this to you?
We got to we got to make a covenant ourselves.
We got to make a promise.
Hey, I'm not gonna bring it back up to the person.
I'm not gonna bring it back up behind the person and not to bring it back up at our minds and dwell on it anymore.
What did the Bible say in 2nd Corinthians chapter number 10?
He said casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought
to the obedience of Christ, bringing thoughts into captivity.
What do we do?
We surrender or we sacrifice those thoughts to God.
We renew our mind in Him.
We don't think of those hurtful things of the past, but whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of a good report, I need to go on and on with that passage.
He said, think on these things.
That's what we think on.
well by promising and then watch this by refusal.
Refusal to forgive is a decision to pursue revengeance.
Refusal to forgive.
You've got to make up your mind.
I am going to forgive.
You know what, Miss Tanya, if you'll come start playing saw.
I thought about the story of Joseph.
You that knows your Bible knows the story that I'm talking about.
Genesis 50, verse number 19, he said, fear not, for I am in the place of God.
If anyone had a reason to withhold forgiveness, it was Joseph.
When you study his life, the way his brother's doing, if anybody had a reason to refuse it was Joseph.
But what we must remember
is that our circumstances, if you ain't heard nothing else, I've said to not listen to me right here.
What we must remember is that our circumstances never override scripture.
I hope you caught what I just said because I hate to say it because I'm the one that said it, but I'm gonna say it's very deep and profound.
our circumstances.
Never overrides scripture.
You don't know what they done to me.
I hate to brag but I read it from the front to the back and I can't find that.
I can't find that.
Well preacher you don't know how they treated me.
I read all of it
several times and I can't find that in there.
You don't know what they said about me.
You know what?
The truth of the matter is this.
It don't matter what they said about you.
It don't matter what they done to you.
They plugged the beard from Jesus' face.
They smote him.
They put a crown of thorns upon his head and took a reed and drove it down off of him or drove it down on him.
They stripped him of his clothes and hung him on a cross and spin upon him.
And he said, Father forgive them.
Your circumstances never override Scripture.
That Scripture says it don't matter what they've done, that we forgive them.
That we forgive them.
Unforgiveness is not a natural ground.
It places us in the role of judge and denies God his rightful place.
Growth in forgiveness is proven not by what we say, but by what we refuse to repeat, really of, and retaliate over.
I want to say that to you again.
Unforgiveness is not a natural ground.
It places us in the role of judge and denies God
his rightful place.
Growth and forgiveness is proven not by what we say, but by what we refuse to repeat, what we refuse to relive, and what we refuse to retaliate over.
Let me tell you what's essential for spiritual growth, forgiveness.
Let me tell you what separates a lot of good Christians from great Christians, forgiveness.
Forgiveness.
For years, I struggled with it.
I really did.
I struggled.
Matter of fact, I'm hesitant to say this, but I'm going to Victoria, the other two girls played instruments,
Victoria for some reason this year, she took instruments, she took fiddle, she took piano and just never done it and never took off with it and just, okay, I'll go if you want me to.
Matter of fact, one of the reasons she won't stop taking piano is just because she liked to go see Brother Matt's mom and talk to her.
We're not, I mean, we'll go eat with her, we'll go say hi, take you by to see her.
Ain't no needin' payin' all this money for you just to go hang out with Miss Susan.
And so this year, she decided I don't play basketball.
And I said, OK, well, we'll try.
And we've had a ball.
We've had a ball.
Matter of fact, I'm probably going to cry at the end of season.
We've just had a ball.
It's been a time that we've spent together and laughed together.
And we just had a good time.
The other night, I sent her main coach and her assistant coach, both of them go to Freedom Baptist Church.
If I called her names, a lot of them, you know them.
Both of them go to Freedom Baptist Church in Ru Hall, faithful.
hold positions in the church.
It's good Christian ladies.
I sent them both a message and here's what I said to them.
I said, I'm not gonna quote it verbatim, but the gist of it is, Victoria's grown up in a pastor's home, so she knows.
And one thing that all three of my girls have struggled with down through the years is counterfeit Christianity.
People that says they're one thing,
But we'll stand there just right the opposite of it.
And they act one way at church.
But boy, if you ever get them in a tight spot or in a different situation, you just see a whole different person.
Some of y'all know what I'm talking about.
So it's OK to say, amen.
It's just a whole different person.
And I said, I just want to thank you for being real.
I want to thank you that my kid played for somebody this year that was the same coaching as they was singing in church.
There was the same at practice as they was in revival at church.
I just want to thank you for being real.
Preacher's kids struggle with hypocrites and counterfeit Christians.
They see their parents, pour in the people for them to turn their back on them and tell and run the other way.
Matter of fact, Proverbs said this, the heathen runs when no man's approaching him, no man's chasing him.
I'm not quoting everybody.
You already said the heathen runs when nobody's after him.
Just think about it, the heathen runs.
Not the spiritual man, the heathen runs when nobody's after him.
Rajathan, they struggled.
You grew up in the preacher's home.
You know what I'm talking about.
And for years, I struggled with forgiveness.
I really, I'd see people.
Boy, my blood pressure would go out the roof.
I'd walk up to him.
I'd halfway talk to him, walk off.
And I started praying, Miss Vicki, God, help me forgive like you've forgiven me.
And my wife, whether she'll agree with me or not now, I think she will, though, will tell you that I've come to a place in my life where life's too short.
God's too good.
God's blessed me too much.
God showed me too much grace for me to set around and harbor a spirit of unforgiveness in my life.
There's a lot of people that's never said I'm sorry.
But you know what I do when I see them?
Whether they're paid and I walk up to them, I shake their hand, I'll hug their neck.
If they're in a restaurant and I can slip by and grab their ticket, I'll get their ticket and pay for their meal.
Let me tell you the reason why, whether they ever ask me to forgive them or not.
God's been too good to me.
God's blessed me too much.
Forgiveness is something that he commands us.
It's not optional tonight.
it's not it's not option when you choose when you choose not to forgive you choose to blatantly go against the word of God you might as well lay the Bible down and walk over to walk on it because that's what you do he commands it I wrote this down this afternoon the older I get the more I have to
write things down but I wrote this down today the Holy Spirit may not be pointing out what someone else did to you but what you've been carrying because of it you may be forgiven by God yet still bound by an offense you refuse to release forgiveness is not saying the hurt didn't matter
but it's saying that Christ matters more.
If there's a name, a face, or a memory that the Spirit keeps bringing to your heart, this is your moment to lay it down.
Freedom does not come when others change.
It comes when we obey.
If God has forgiven you, He is now inviting you to walk in the same forgiveness
towards others starting tonight.
But the question is this, will you, will you forgive